For Individuals
For Businesses
For Universities
For Governments
Coursera
What do you want to learn?

Browse
Data Science
Machine Learning

Stanford University
DeepLearning.AI
Machine Learning Specialization
#BreakIntoAI with Machine Learning Specialization. Master fundamental AI concepts and develop practical machine learning skills in the beginner-friendly, 3-course program by AI visionary Andrew Ng

Andrew Ng
Geoff Ladwig
Aarti Bagul
Instructors: Andrew Ng 




Top Instructor

694,242 already enrolled

3 course series
Get in-depth knowledge of a subject
4.9
(35 741 reviews)

Beginner level
Recommended experience



2 months to complete
at 10 hours a week
Flexible schedule
Learn at your own pace
About
Outcomes
Courses
Testimonials
What you'll learn
Build ML models with NumPy & scikit-learn, build & train supervised models for prediction & binary classification tasks (linear, logistic regression)

Build & train a neural network with TensorFlow to perform multi-class classification, & build & use decision trees & tree ensemble methods

Apply best practices for ML development & use unsupervised learning techniques for unsupervised learning including clustering & anomaly detection

Build recommender systems with a collaborative filtering approach & a content-based deep learning method & build a deep reinforcement learning model

Skills you'll gain
Decision Tree Learning
Python Programming
Responsible AI
Classification And Regression Tree (CART)
Applied Machine Learning
Jupyter
NumPy
Unsupervised Learning
Supervised Learning
Details to know

Shareable certificate
Add to your LinkedIn profile

Taught in English
See how employees at top companies are mastering in-demand skills
Learn more about Coursera for Business
 logos of Petrobras, TATA, Danone, Capgemini, P&G and L'Oreal 
Specialization - 3 course series
The Machine Learning Specialization is a foundational online program created in collaboration between DeepLearning.AI and Stanford Online. This beginner-friendly program will teach you the fundamentals of machine learning and how to use these techniques to build real-world AI applications. 

This Specialization is taught by Andrew Ng, an AI visionary who has led critical research at Stanford University and groundbreaking work at Google Brain, Baidu, and Landing.AI to advance the AI field.

This 3-course Specialization is an updated version of Andrew’s pioneering Machine Learning course, rated 4.9 out of 5 and taken by over 4.8 million learners since it launched in 2012. 

It provides a broad introduction to modern machine learning, including supervised learning (multiple linear regression, logistic regression, neural networks, and decision trees), unsupervised learning (clustering, dimensionality reduction, recommender systems), and some of the best practices used in Silicon Valley for artificial intelligence and machine learning innovation (evaluating and tuning models, taking a data-centric approach to improving performance, and more.)

By the end of this Specialization, you will have mastered key concepts and gained the practical know-how to quickly and powerfully apply machine learning to challenging real-world problems. If you’re looking to break into AI or build a career in machine learning, the new Machine Learning Specialization is the best place to start.

Applied Learning Project

By the end of this Specialization, you will be ready to:

 

• Build machine learning models in Python using popular machine learning libraries NumPy and scikit-learn.

• Build and train supervised machine learning models for prediction and binary classification tasks, including linear regression and logistic regression.

• Build and train a neural network with TensorFlow to perform multi-class classification.

• Apply best practices for machine learning development so that your models generalize to data and tasks in the real world.

• Build and use decision trees and tree ensemble methods, including random forests and boosted trees.

• Use unsupervised learning techniques for unsupervised learning: including clustering and anomaly detection.

• Build recommender systems with a collaborative filtering approach and a content-based deep learning method.

• Build a deep reinforcement learning model.

Read more
Supervised Machine Learning: Regression and Classification 
Supervised Machine Learning: Regression and Classification
Course 1
•
33 hours


Advanced Learning Algorithms
Advanced Learning Algorithms
Course 2
•
34 hours



Unsupervised Learning, Recommenders, Reinforcement Learning
Unsupervised Learning, Recommenders, Reinforcement Learning
Course 3
•
27 hours



Earn a career certificate
Add this credential to your LinkedIn profile, resume, or CV. Share it on social media and in your performance review.

Instructors
Andrew Ng
Top Instructor

Andrew Ng
Stanford University
51 Courses
•
9,165,340 learners



Offered by

Stanford University


DeepLearning.AI

Why people choose Coursera for their career

Felipe M.
Learner since 2018
"To be able to take courses at my own pace and rhythm has been an amazing experience. I can learn whenever it fits my schedule and mood."

Jennifer J.
Learner since 2020
"I directly applied the concepts and skills I learned from my courses to an exciting new project at work."

Larry W.
Learner since 2021
"When I need courses on topics that my university doesn't offer, Coursera is one of the best places to go."

Chaitanya A.
"Learning isn't just about being better at your job: it's so much more than that. Coursera allows me to learn without limits."
Coursera Plus
Open new doors with Coursera Plus
Unlimited access to 10,000+ world-class courses, hands-on projects, and job-ready certificate programs - all included in your subscription

Learn more
Advance your career with an online degree
Earn a degree from world-class universities - 100% online

Explore degrees
Join over 3,400 global companies that choose Coursera for Business
Upskill your employees to excel in the digital economy

Learn more
Frequently asked questions










































































More questions
Visit the learner help center
Financial aid available, learn more

¹ Median salary and job opening data are sourced from Lightcast™ Job Postings Report.
  Content Creator, Machine Learning Engineer and Salesforce Development Representative (01.01.2024 - 31.12.2024)
  All other job roles (01.09.2024 - 01.09.2025)

Coursera Footer

Skills

Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Cybersecurity
Data Analytics
Digital Marketing
English Speaking
Generative AI (GenAI)
Microsoft Excel
Microsoft Power BI
Project Management
Python
Certificates & Programs

Google Cybersecurity Certificate
Google Data Analytics Certificate
Google IT Support Certificate
Google Project Management Certificate
Google UX Design Certificate
IBM Data Analyst Certificate
IBM Data Science Certificate
Machine Learning Certificate
Microsoft Power BI Data Analyst Certificate
UI / UX Design Certificate
Industries & Careers

Business
Computer Science
Data Science
Education & Teaching
Engineering
Finance
Healthcare
Human Resources (HR)
Information Technology (IT)
Marketing
Career Resources

Career Aptitude Test
Examples of Strengths and Weaknesses for Job Interviews
High-Income Skills to Learn
How Does Cryptocurrency Work?
How to Highlight Duplicates in Google Sheets
How to Learn Artificial Intelligence
Popular Cybersecurity Certifications
Preparing for the PMP Certification
Signs You Will Get the Job After an Interview
What Is Artificial Intelligence?
Coursera

About
What We Offer
Leadership
Careers
Catalog
Coursera Plus
Professional Certificates
MasterTrack® Certificates
Degrees
For Enterprise
For Government
For Campus
Become a Partner
Social Impact
Free Courses
Share your Coursera learning story
Community

Learners
Partners
Beta Testers
Blog
The Coursera Podcast
Tech Blog
More

Press
Investors
Terms
Privacy
Help
Accessibility
Contact
Articles
Directory
Affiliates
Modern Slavery Statement
Manage Cookie Preferences
Download on the App Store
Get it on Google Play
Logo of Certified B Corporation
© 2025 Coursera Inc. All rights reserved.
Coursera Facebook
Coursera Linkedin
Coursera Twitter
Coursera YouTube
Coursera Instagram
Coursera TikTok